POSITION
ABOUT THE DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMICS AND STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT
1. GENERAL PROVISIONS.............................................. .................................................. .. 3
2. TASKS AND FUNCTIONS ............................................. .................................................. .. four
3. RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ............................................. .............................................. 8
4. RESPONSIBILITY ............................................... .................................................. . 10
5. ORGANIZATION OF ACTIVITY .............................................. ............................. eleven
AGREEMENT SHEET ................................................ ................................................ 12
CHANGE ACCOUNTING SHEET ............................................... ........................................... 13
1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1. Department of Economics and Strategic Management (hereinafter
Department) was created by combining the Department of Economic Theory and
Economic Policy, Department of Economic Theory and Business, and Department
Applied Economics and Marketing Faculty of Technology Management and
innovations (hereinafter MTMI) of the federal state autonomous
educational institution of higher education "St. Petersburg
National Research University of Information Technology,
mechanics and optics "(hereinafter referred to as ITMO University or University) and is
educational and scientific structural unit of ITMO University, providing educational programs, scientific and
educational work.
1.2. The department is created and liquidated by order of the rector in accordance
with the decision of the Academic Council of ITMO University. 1.3. The regulation on the department (hereinafter the Regulation) is developed in accordance with
with the intra-university methodological instruction SMK-MI-01/07 “General requirements
to the construction, content, design, approval of the “Regulation on structural
units ”and“ Job description ”and amendments thereto” and requirements
GOST R ISO 9001: 2001.
1.4. The department in its activities is guided by:
1.4.1. legislation of the Russian Federation on education;
1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1. Department of Economics and Strategic Management (hereinafter
Department) was created by combining the Department of Economic Theory and
Economic Policy, Department of Economic Theory and Business, and Department
Applied Economics and Marketing Faculty of Technology Management and
innovations (hereinafter MTMI) of the federal state autonomous
educational institution of higher education "St. Petersburg
National Research University of Information Technology,
mechanics and optics "(hereinafter referred to as ITMO University or University) and is
educational and scientific structural unit of ITMO University, providing educational programs, scientific and
educational work.
1.2. The department is created and liquidated by order of the rector in accordance
with the decision of the Academic Council of ITMO University. 1.3. The regulation on the department (hereinafter the Regulation) is developed in accordance with
with the intra-university methodological instruction SMK-MI-01/07 “General requirements
to the construction, content, design, approval of the “Regulation on structural
units ”and“ Job description ”and amendments thereto” and requirements
GOST R ISO 9001: 2001.
1.4. The department in its activities is guided by:
1.4.1. legislation of the Russian Federation on education;2.2.12. carrying out work to expand the relations of the department with
industrial, scientific, educational organizations; helping these
organizations in the training and retraining of personnel, the implementation of scientific research, the creation of branches of departments;
2.2.13. establishment and development of international relations (including in
areas of educational, research and other activities);
2.2.14. research on natural and
technical sciences, on socio-economic problems;
2.2.15. discussion of completed research and
preparation of recommendations for their publication, participation in the implementation of the results
research into practice;
2.2.16. organization of research work of students, preparation
and conducting student conferences, competitions and contests;
2.2.17. educational work among students, including
through a curatorial system, interacting with student community
organizations, student scientific societies;
2.2.18. development of annual and long-term plans for increasing
qualifications of employees of the department, their presentation for approval, organization
and control over their implementation;
2.2.19. Assistance to employees of the department in their creative growth, including
by attaching novice teachers to leading professors and
associate professors, conducting discussions at the methodological seminar, open lectures and
raining, study and dissemination of advanced
pedagogical experience;
2.2.20. creating the necessary conditions for the work of teachers and scientific
employees on candidate and doctoral dissertations, organization
interested discussion of dissertations, promotion of employee participation
departments in conferences and publishing research results.
2.3. The department performs the following additional functions:
2.3.1. the formation of educational programs in the areas and
specialties of training;
2.3.2. development of curricula in areas and specialties
training;
2.3.3. development of requirements for the level of training of graduates;
2.3.4. development of methodological support for the creation and use
assessment tools for the final certification of graduates;
2.3.5. graduate qualification management;
2.3.6. organization and conduct of all types of student practices;
2.3.7. conducting control tests of students, including
preliminary defense of graduation works and assessment of knowledge during the transition of students
to other educational programs;
2.3.8. participation in vocational guidance
student youth;
2.3.9. formation of the composition of the State examination commissions
(GES) and participation in its work;
2.3.10. analysis of employment data for their graduates, support with
permanent contacts, study of the labor market in the specialty and
the direction in which the training of specialists is carried out;
2.3.11. carrying out activities in coordination with the Careers Service center aimed at employing full-time graduates;
2.3.12. facilitating the conclusion of individual tripartite
student contracts with ITMO University and enterprises, institutions and
organizations.
3. RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
3.1. The rights of the department are exercised by its head. He has the right:
3.1.1. participate in the work of all divisions and governing bodies
ITMO University, where issues related to
the activities of the department;
3.1.2. present work programs for academic disciplines;
3.1.3. approve assignments for term papers and graduate qualifications
work;
3.1.4. approve the schedule of work of the department, individual
teacher work plans, thematic calendar plans
disciplines, examination tickets and other documentation of the department;
3.1.5. distribute pedagogical load and functional
responsibilities between employees of the department and control the timeliness and
quality of their implementation;
3.1.6. control all forms of training and research,
conducted by teachers and staff of the department;
3.1.7. select candidates for vacant positions in the department and
submit in the prescribed manner documents for registration of their reception at
work;
3.1.8. carry out certification of personnel, make proposals to the Rector on
encouraging or punishing employees of the department;
3.1.9. require ITMO University departments
creating conditions for the organization of the educational process and scientific
research;
3.1.10. submit proposals for improvement
educational process, organization of research, training and
other activities of the department;
3.1.11. participate in the development and coordination of draft instructions,
provisions and other regulatory documents on the activities of the department;
3.1.12. require all employees of the department to comply with the Rules
internal regulations, labor discipline, job responsibilities,
rational use of all resources providing activity
the department. In case of non-fulfillment by the above persons of official
duties, violation of labor discipline, internal regulations,
other regulations ITMO University, require an explanation from them, including
including in writing.
3.2. The head of the department issues orders for all necessary
issues of organization of the department, mandatory for all of its
employees and students.
3.3. The rights of members of the department are determined by the Charter of ITMO University. 3.4. Responsibilities of the department:
3.4.1. fully perform the tasks and functions defined
these Regulations;
3.4.2. interact with ITMO University departments authorized by quality, rendering them all kinds of assistance.
4. RESPONSIBILITY
4.1. The responsibility of the department staff is realized through
responsibility of its employees: manager, deputy managers, others
teaching staff, scientists, teaching support
staff and students. Moreover, the responsibility of each employee and
the student is strictly individual, depending on the assigned to him
duties and functions that are listed in the relevant job title
instructions.
4.2. The head of the department is personally responsible:
4.2.1. for the activities of the department as a whole;
duties, violation of labor discipline, internal regulations,
other regulations ITMO University, require an explanation from them, including
including in writing.
3.2. The head of the department issues orders for all necessary
issues of organization of the department, mandatory for all of its
employees and students.
3.3. The rights of members of the department are determined by the Charter of ITMO University. 3.4. Responsibilities of the department:
3.4.1. fully perform the tasks and functions defined
these Regulations;
3.4.2. interact with ITMO University departments authorized by quality, rendering them all kinds of assistance.
4. RESPONSIBILITY
4.1. The responsibility of the department staff is realized through
responsibility of its employees: manager, deputy managers, others
teaching staff, scientists, teaching support
staff and students. Moreover, the responsibility of each employee and
the student is strictly individual, depending on the assigned to him
duties and functions that are listed in the relevant job title
instructions.
4.2. The head of the department is personally responsible:
4.2.1. for the activities of the department as a whole;
vement of personnel;
4.2.3. for the quality of planning and organization of educational, research, educational processes;
4.2.4. for the state of labor discipline, accounting and reporting.
5. ORGANIZATION OF ACTIVITY
5.1. The department is directly subordinate to the Dean of MTMI.
5.2. The department is headed by the head, elected to this position.
The academic council of ITMO University for a period of 5 years from among professors or
the most experienced associate professors in the manner determined by the current
Legislation and Articles of Association of ITMO University. Appointment to office
head of the department after the decision of the Academic Council of ITMO University
made by order of the Rector.
5.3. The work of the department is carried out in accordance with the promising
and annual plans covering all aspects of the educational, scientific, methodological
and educational work, issues of advanced training and other parties
the work of the department.
5.4. The department includes teaching staff (head
Chair, professors, associate professors, senior lecturers. teachers, assistants).
5.5. At the department sections, centers and laboratories may be created, including teachers of one or more of the closest
the content of disciplines for solving methodological and organizational issues
educational process support.
Each sheet of this Regulation has a continuous numbering. Before number
The page indicates the date of the version on which the page was published (Version ... from ............). Correction of the text (parts of the text) of any of the pages is carried out only
by replacing the entire page. The version date also changes accordingly. If at
making changes, the pages are added, then they are numbered by the number
replaceable page with the letter index "a", "b", etc. alphabetically.
Information on proofreading (replacement of sheets) is entered in the table of changes.
The date of the latest version characterizes the modernity of the entire document.
When making more than 3 changes to the table, a new document with
upgrade version (1.0 to 2.0, 2.0 to 3.0, etc.).
Rules for access and use of information posted in the domainifmo.ru zone.Terms of Use1. GENERAL PROVISIONS1.1. These rules (hereinafter - the Rules)
are developed taking into account the requirements of:• “Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works” from09.09.1886,• Constitution 
of the Russian Federation,• Civil Code of the Russian Federation,• Federal Law of July 27, 2006 No. 149-ФЗ On Information, Informationtechnologies and 
information protection ”,• Decree of the Government of Russia dated July 10, 2013 No. 582 “On approval of the Rulesposting on the official website of 
the educational organization in the informationtelecommunication network "Internet" and updating information on educationalorganizations ”• Charter of 
the federal state autonomous educational institutionHigher Education "St. Petersburg National ResearchUniversity of Information Technologies, Mechanics 
and Optics ”, approvedby order of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation of March 21, 2014 No.219.1.2. These Rules determine the 
conditions for access and use of information from sites,hosted in the domain zone ifmo.ru (hereinafter referred to as the Sites).1.3. Under information 
and other information materials for the purpose of these Rulesany information is understood, regardless of the form of their presentation, including allContent 
data, including (but not limited to): headings, texts, articles, illustrations,photo and video images, phonograms, with the exception of objects, asrights holders 
and / or sources of which third parties are indicated, as well as design objects(hereinafter - Information).1.4. Information Holder, i.e. a person who 
independently created the Information orlegally authorized to authorize or restrict access anduse of Information posted on Sites located in the domain 
zoneifmo.ru, is a federal state autonomous educational institutionHigher Education "St. Petersburg National Research Universityinformation technology, 
mechanics and optics ”(hereinafter - the Information Holder).1.5. These Rules apply to any persons visiting and / orusing the Sites located in the 
domain zone ifmo.ru (hereinafter -Users). Rules for access and / or use of certain types of information (sites,information systems, databases, individual 
objects, etc.) can be installed incompliance with certain provisions of the Information Holder.
2. TERMS OF ACCESS TO INFORMATION2.1. Users have the right to freely search and receive Information, access towhich is not limited by the 
Information Holder by technical or other means, toSites located in the domain zone ifmo.ru. Playback, Broadcast,distribution, transmission, 
communication or communication to the public, translation,processing, copying file content and other possible ways to useUser of Information 
in relation to which it is directly and / or indirectly indicated that itthe source and / or copyright holder is the Information Holder, are 
allowed inthe following cases:2.1.1. legal entities on the basis of an agreement or other agreement with the OwnerInformation in writing;2.1.2. 
by individuals, without the consent of the Information Holder, but with the obligatorya reference to the Owner of Information as a source and / 
or copyright holder of Information atprovided that such use is carried out by an individual solely forpersonal, family, household and other needs 
not related to incomeany other material benefit, including use on the Internet (on personalpages on social networks, blogs, etc.);2.1.3. individuals 
and legal entities, without the consent of the Information Holder, but withmandatory compliance with the conditions defined by section 3 of these Rules, 
in the form of:- quoting Information in scientific, polemical, critical and otherinformational purposes in an amount not exceeding 30% of the initial 
Information;- use of the Information or its parts as educational materials in publications,radio and television broadcasts, sound and video recordings 
of an educational nature in the amount notexceeding 40% of the original Information;- reproduction in print, broadcast messages or cable transmissionpublicly 
delivered speeches, appeals, reports and other similar materials,radio, television, video, newsreels, if they are part of the Information, ina volume not 
exceeding 40% of the original Information;- reproduction of the Information or its parts by bringing to the publicvia the Internet in such a way that anyone 
can accessInformation from any place and at any time of one’s choice, to the extent notin excess of 300 characters (excluding spaces).2.2. Reproduction in print 
or network media, message tobroadcast or by cable, including via RSS feeds, as well as bringing to the publicinformation of the Information or its parts in an 
amount greater than provided for in paragraph 2.1.3of this section, without the consent of the Information Holder is prohibited.2.3. Information in relation to 
which it is indicated that its source or copyright holderis another person in relation to the Information Holder, is used on the grounds2
stipulated by this section, taking into account the requirements of the person indicated as a sourceor Information Holder.3. TERMS OF USE OF INFORMATION3.1. 
Use of Information by Users is permitted exclusively inin accordance with these Rules.3.2. When using the Information, the User is obliged to give a link to 
the OwnerInformation as a source of Information as follows:3.2.1. when using the Information on any tangible medium (paper, film, etc.)p.), in each case of 
use, in the form “Source: www.ifmo.ru”;3.2.2. when using the Information in electronic form (website, electronicfile, etc.), in each case of use, give a 
hyperlink to the main page of the sitewww.ifmo.ru and the page for posting relevant material;3.2.3. when used in print media - as an indication of the name 
of the OwnerInformation and publication dates;3.2.4. when used during radio, television, video, newsreel programs - inas a reference to the name of the Information 
Holder.3.3. Use of Information from secondary sources containing a link toInformation Holder as a source of information, possibly only with reference toThe owner 
of the Information drawn up in accordance with paragraph 3.2 of these Rules.3.4. Links or hyperlinks provided for in this section must belocated:3.4.1. when using 
textual Information - at the beginning of the used Information;3.4.2. when using graphic Information - directly below the usedInformation.3.5. The font size of 
the link or hyperlink must not be less than the font of the textThe user who uses the text information, or the font size of the textUser accompanying graphic 
information.3.6. When using the Information, the reduction of textual Information is allowed, butonly to the extent that this does not distort its meaning.Any 
other processing of the Information during use is not allowed without consentInformation Owner.For all issues of obtaining consent to use the Information, 
contact:197101, St. Petersburg, Kronverksky Prospekt, 49.ITMO University IT Departmentphone: +7 (812) 232-28-513
fax: +7 (812) 232-23-07e-mail: org@mail.ifmo.ruOr through the contact information on the Sites.4. DISCLAIMER4.1. The administration of the Sites located in 
the domain zone ifmo.ru applies everythingefforts to provide users with accurate and reliable information, but at the same timedoes not exclude the possibility 
of errors.4.2. The administration of the Sites located in the domain zone ifmo.ru reserves thethe right to make changes to the information posted on the Site 
without noticeusers. At the same time, updating the information specified in paragraphs 3-5 of the placement rulesonofficialwebsiteeducationalthe organizationat
informationaltelecommunication network "Internet", approved by Decree of the Government of the Russian Federationdated July 10, 2013 No. 582, carried out after 
they are changed within the time period establishednormative acts.4.3. For the convenience of Users with an informational purpose on the Sites located inifmo.ru 
domain zone, may contain links to sites owned by otherslegal and physical persons. Information Holder does not provide anyguarantees regarding any site to which 
the User cango using the link from the Sites located in the domain zone ifmo.ru.The User understands and agrees that the Information Holder does not bear anyliab
ility regarding the content of such sites.5. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY AND APPLICABLE LAW5.1. The owner of the Information is not liable for direct and indirect da
mage, includingincluding loss of profit resulting from misinterpretation and applicationinformation or materials presented on Sites located in the domain zoneifmo
.ru.5.2. In case of violation by the User or group of Users of these RulesThe administration has the right to take any legal action in defense of its interests.
5.3. The user agrees that all possible disputes will be resolved incompliance with the norms of Russian law.6. COPYRIGHT6.1. The layout of pages, logo, graphics
 and drawings posted on the Sites,located in the domain zone ifmo.ru are protected by copyright.6.2. All rights to materials located on the Sites located in the
 domain zoneifmo.ru, are protected in accordance with international law and the legislation of the Russian Federation, includingincluding copyright and related r
 ights.7. LEGISLATION OF OTHER COUNTRIESfour
7.1. The Owner of the Information does not guarantee the compliance of the content of the Sites,located in the domain zone ifmo.ru, the laws of other countries
. When accessingThe user is fully responsible for the compliance with all sites.country standards for viewing Sites.5
